README.md, before:

# Why Recipes?
Leadership & Management is like cooking. Everyone has their own style, and there's no "right" or "wrong" way to do it. We all learn by watching others, tasting their delicious (or not so much...) creations, and combining our favorite discoveries into our own unique dishes. So, since it is like cooking, we should have a Leadership & Management Cookbook! This is my attempt to start it.

A good cookbook does a few things. This is inspired by [Mastering the Art of French Cooking](https://www.amazon.com/Mastering-Art-French-Cooking-Vol/dp/0375413405/ref=pd_lpo_sccl_3/143-3838692-8843936?pd_rd_w=kCaD4&content-id=amzn1.sym.116f529c-aa4d-4763-b2b6-4d614ec7dc00&pf_rd_p=116f529c-aa4d-4763-b2b6-4d614ec7dc00&pf_rd_r=K3BWES5N26QFD5JSQ0DF&pd_rd_wg=bV24H&pd_rd_r=7acd5025-4ac0-40a2-b8e5-2a5c75b610ac&pd_rd_i=0375413405&psc=1)
 * Explain some fundamental _properties_ of the ingredients. Beef, tomatoes, salt -- some of these are fundamental across all of cooking.
 * Explore the _techniques_ available to the chef. Searing, grilling, boiling... 
 * Build some simple, reusable recipes as a _toolbox_. Sauces, rubs, bases...
 * Create magical dishes by combining all of the above in interesting ways.
 * Explore variations on the themes.

We'll use a similar structure here. We'll break down our most complex leadership & management recipes into combinations of simpler building blocks. Hopefully as you grow in your career, you'll move up the recipe complexity ladder and feel comfortable trying the hardest ones! And, as an open cookbook, we encourage you to add your own variations, techniques, insights, or entirely new recipes here. The goal of this cookbook is not to be 100% comprehensive; the topic is too vast for that. In many cases, we'll give a few example recipes, and then point at entire chapters or books dedicated to the subject. 

# About this book

## "Leadership" vs "Management"
Both Leadership & Management are fundamentally about changing how people think. Change how they think, and they'll behave differently. Change how they behave, and they'll reach different outcomes. Like the physics equivalents of acceleration, velocity, and position, to reach a certain (x, y, z, t) one must focus on the correct acceleration. To create the necessary outcomes, we must focus on how people think.

*Leadership* and *Management* are not opposites, they are two ends of a spectrum of work that we do to change how people think. On the Leadership side of the spectrum, we are focused on _direction_: how do we need to change how people think so we end up at the best possible outcome? On the Management side of the spectrum, we are focused on _efficiency_: how do we need to change how people think so we get there with the least possible effort (money, time, resources)? Great leaders find inspirational, yet attainable, outcomes for the team. Great managers make getting there look easy. Those that can do both create a dynamic organization that fluidly navigates the unexpected challenges every ambitious team encounters.

## Audience: Engineering
All of the recipes in this cookbook are built assuming that the cook is a _software engineering_ leader & manager. That doesn't mean that the recipes can't be altered to fit a different palate; like a type of cuisine, many of them can be adopted whole-sale, while others might be usable with minor modifications. Some may not work at all. 


## Section Health
There are a LOT of sections in this cookbook. Since we are actively working on it, parts will be unstarted, parts incomplete, parts wrong and not useful yet... So to help folks navigate it while it is 'under construction' we are using color-codes per section.

# Table of Contents

  1. [Definitions](definitions/README.md)
  1. [Ingredients](ingredients/README.md): a discussion of the key ingredients that, if we combine them in the right way, will make people think differently.
  1. [Equipment](equipment/README.md): a discussion on the various tools that you have to combine those ingredients.
  1. [Recipes](recipes/README.md): 
  1. [Meals](meals/README.md): 
  1. [Feasts](feasts/README.md): 
  1. [Appendix](appendix/README.md): 


# Unorganized

Commit message:

Make our section health a little easier to understand

README.md, after:

# Why Recipes?
Leadership & Management is like cooking. Everyone has their own style, and there's no "right" or "wrong" way to do it. We all learn by watching others, tasting their delicious (or not so much...) creations, and combining our favorite discoveries into our own unique dishes. So, since it is like cooking, we should have a Leadership & Management Cookbook! This is my attempt to start it.

A good cookbook does a few things. This is inspired by [Mastering the Art of French Cooking](https://www.amazon.com/Mastering-Art-French-Cooking-Vol/dp/0375413405/ref=pd_lpo_sccl_3/143-3838692-8843936?pd_rd_w=kCaD4&content-id=amzn1.sym.116f529c-aa4d-4763-b2b6-4d614ec7dc00&pf_rd_p=116f529c-aa4d-4763-b2b6-4d614ec7dc00&pf_rd_r=K3BWES5N26QFD5JSQ0DF&pd_rd_wg=bV24H&pd_rd_r=7acd5025-4ac0-40a2-b8e5-2a5c75b610ac&pd_rd_i=0375413405&psc=1)
 * Explain some fundamental _properties_ of the ingredients. Beef, tomatoes, salt -- some of these are fundamental across all of cooking.
 * Explore the _techniques_ available to the chef. Searing, grilling, boiling... 
 * Build some simple, reusable recipes as a _toolbox_. Sauces, rubs, bases...
 * Create magical dishes by combining all of the above in interesting ways.
 * Explore variations on the themes.

We'll use a similar structure here. We'll break down our most complex leadership & management recipes into combinations of simpler building blocks. Hopefully as you grow in your career, you'll move up the recipe complexity ladder and feel comfortable trying the hardest ones! And, as an open cookbook, we encourage you to add your own variations, techniques, insights, or entirely new recipes here. The goal of this cookbook is not to be 100% comprehensive; the topic is too vast for that. In many cases, we'll give a few example recipes, and then point at entire chapters or books dedicated to the subject. 

# About this book

## "Leadership" vs "Management"
Both Leadership & Management are fundamentally about changing how people think. Change how they think, and they'll behave differently. Change how they behave, and they'll reach different outcomes. Like the physics equivalents of acceleration, velocity, and position, to reach a certain (x, y, z, t) one must focus on the correct acceleration. To create the necessary outcomes, we must focus on how people think.

*Leadership* and *Management* are not opposites, they are two ends of a spectrum of work that we do to change how people think. On the Leadership side of the spectrum, we are focused on _direction_: how do we need to change how people think so we end up at the best possible outcome? On the Management side of the spectrum, we are focused on _efficiency_: how do we need to change how people think so we get there with the least possible effort (money, time, resources)? Great leaders find inspirational, yet attainable, outcomes for the team. Great managers make getting there look easy. Those that can do both create a dynamic organization that fluidly navigates the unexpected challenges every ambitious team encounters.

## The Skill Stack: Choose Wisely!
TODO: explain what the skill stack is & how to build it.  
Skill: Combination of knowledge + practice. 

## Audience: Engineering
All of the recipes in this cookbook are built assuming that the cook is a _software engineering_ leader & manager. That doesn't mean that the recipes can't be altered to fit a different palate; like a type of cuisine, many of them can be adopted whole-sale, while others might be usable with minor modifications. Some may not work at all. 


## Section Health
There are a LOT of sections in this cookbook. Since we are actively working on it, parts will be unstarted, parts incomplete, parts wrong and not useful yet... So to help folks navigate it while it is 'under construction' we use the following badges:

1. 📄 Placeholder. This means the page exists purely as an empty canvas for future work.
2. 📋 Raw notes. This means the page has notes being stored to convert into an actual document. The notes might be useful, but they probably aren't.
3. 🌪 In progress. This means I'm actively working on the page and it will be changing in the near future. It probably shouldn't be read yet.
4. 🚧 Draft. This means the page has some useful content is probably worth reading, but shouldn't be considered complete yet.
5. ✅ Published. This means the page is likely useful.
6. 👥✅ Core Team Contributions. This means the page has had other people contributing to it and is now a "group-owned" page.
7. 🌐✅ Public Contributions. This means the page is now generally useful to the public since we've had non core-team members contributing to it.

# Table of Contents

  1. [Definitions](definitions/README.md)
  1. [Ingredients](ingredients/README.md): a discussion of the key ingredients that, if we combine them in the right way, will make people think differently.
  1. [Equipment](equipment/README.md): a discussion on the various tools that you have to combine those ingredients.
  1. [Recipes](recipes/README.md): 
  1. [Meals](meals/README.md): 
  1. [Feasts](feasts/README.md): 
  1. [Appendix](appendix/README.md): 


# Unorganized
